Angband by: David Franklin

Inside that fortress which could not be saved, as in the heart of one who remembers....
Is inscribed Never Ending narrative for a creature living in my deconstructed dreams 
Ash covered the seeming statue slumped restless among entrenched pillars
I still see the mask -- the monster’s inward stare, hollow eyes for embers to die inside
Desperately, looking away from architectural wonders, all around 
Columns, legions of helmeted vertical construction, marched forward 
Maneuvered, and by their orders -- cut down their fellow stones, with swords
Raining bells, battered the conjoined fluted blocks
Percussion destroyed the pediment, nothing could shield them now....
Only choir remained: crying from cavernous building barely lit by a dragon’s sorrow
Speared utterly, and left to breathe its last flames, alone 
Those faceless rocks who did this, hung together in half fallen arches, discarded
How I marveled at their public works -- elves and orcs, at last in peace, together	
Ruled by a great colossus, seated atop crumbling pedestal, gesturing to no one…

”They look like good, strong hands…don’t they?”, asked the weeping bronze 
“I always thought -- that’s what they were...”, regret slipped through sculpted fingers
"My little friends!”  decorative proclamations, when all color has worn away:
“The little man with his oliphaunt, the hobgoblin, and even that stupid lizard --”
“--I just couldn’t hold onto them. The Valar pulled them right out of my hands...”
“I failed...”  and carved, slowly, its troubles with clenched fist, into a restless mind
	
”No...”, others should not strain under my limitations, 
“...I failed.” admitting my flawed designs, apparent now, without those precious to me
“I was the one chosen to stop the Valar.” -- my ornamental pride
“But I‘ve lost the silmarils -- I can’t find my wolf!”  excuses, crafted from nothingness
“So, I won’t be able to reach the Doors of Night and save Melkor!!”
Had I the strength and courage of Glaurung, this would not have happened
	
Walls cracked, sound struck the perimeter, and actually breached our foundries!
Molten tears poured from beaten metal:  “Listen: the Valar will return any moment”	
The furnace which winged monolith broke inside of, lamenting with fading fiery words
“Let them come. There is one Balrog in Angband that still draws breath.”  
Screams, the eagles come at last, to herald the host of Valinor
Barely risen height, its muscular arms pressed wide the weakened length of colonnade
Force shook the iron prison,  “I shall ease the free peoples of their burden...”
A prince of demons whispering final wrath to mountains massed above us 
Hailing these invaders:  “It must be so tedious, waiting for an old soldier to die”
Crushing vengeance collapsed the Dark Lord’s realm with unequaled acceleration
Mortals and Ents fell into fire and water, just as Ancalagon did, and Thorondor too	